.\" Process with groff -man -Tascii file.3
.TH OPENSMACKENTRY 3 2012-04-09 "" "wbSmack Manual"
.SH NAME
opensmackentry, smackentryget, smackentrycontains, closesmackentry \- \
get a more detailed smack user entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <smack.h>
.sp
.BI "struct smackentry* opensmackentry(const char *" username );
.sp
.BI "const char* smackentryget(struct smackentry const *" entry ", size_t " index );
.sp
.BI "int smackentrycontains(struct smackentry const *" entry ", const char *" label );
.sp
Link with \fI-lwbsmack\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions related to
.I struct smackentry
provide access to the additional labels specified for a user in
.I /etc/smack/usr
and contains a boolean value specifying whether or not a
.B *ALL
label was specified for the user, stating that the user is allowed
to take on any label. (Usually used for root).
.PP
.BR opensmackentry ()
looks for the specified user, and if found, returns a pointer to a
.I struct smackentry
containing all the necessary information. The pointer has to be
passed to
.BR closesmackentry ()
when it is no longer required.
If no user was found,
.B NULL
is returned.
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
struct smackentry {
    char*  _su_name;       /* The smack username. */
    char** _su_labels;     /* All labels listed for a user. */
    size_t _su_labelcount; /* The number of labels found. */
    int    su_any;        /* 1 if the user has acess to all labels. */
    /* reserved space follows */
};
.fi
.in
Direct use of any member other than
.I su_any
is
.B strongly discouraged!
.PP
.BR closesmackentry ()
deallocates a smackentry and all its underlying data. Any pointers
returned by the convenience function
.BR smackentryget ()
become
.I invalid
after this call.
.PP
.BR smackentryget ()
returns a label from the provided structure, or
.B NULL
if the index is out of range. Use this function rather than accessing
the members directly.
.PP
.BR smackentrycontains ()
returns 1 if the provided label is found in the provided smack entry,
0 otherwise.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/smack/usr
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getsmackuser_r (3)
